---
layout: post
title:  "Review Stories Instead of Sprints"
author: david
categories: [ agile, startup ]
image: assets/images/story.jpg
featured: true
---
What the [2020 scrum guide](https://scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html) says is delivering a valuable, 
useful sprint goal within a month is the only priority.

* Fixed, co-located Scrum team, Sprint commitments, story points, velocity, epics and story 
  splitting, form of a user story, acceptance criteria - not mentioned
* Burn downs and capacity planning - not required or strongly endorsed
* Refining product backlog beyond the next sprint - discouraged
* Freezing sprint stories and inflexible sprint lengths - highly discouraged

Unfortunately, sprints are too short for most new product or feature creation and too long to 
comply with continuously delivered improvements like some technical debt.

So [some bogs](https://techbeacon.com/app-dev-testing/seduction-two-week-sprint) advocate longer sprints. 
This scheme has two problems:
1. "After the team made the shift, the product owner found prioritizing the work extremely easy." If 
stories are reviewable units of work then why not just evaluate each individually instead of sprint 
   results? 
2. There's a whole hand waving section of the article about what to do if one month is not long enough
to get to a shippable feature.

Originally the idea was that the customer was going to review the work done in a sprint. But how many modern customers 
are willing to more than once a month comment on new deliverables while waiting for functionality and quality to 
improve?
   
### An Example - GDPR
   
Let's go through an example to clarify. Suppose your feature is [GDPR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation)
and for simplicity your stories are
* Ability to delete a user account
* UI and notifications for deleting a user account
* Ability to delete an organization
* UI and notifications for deleting an organization

So ignoring sprints you've got four reviewable units of work and away you go in order of value. 

In order to incorporate sprints things become horribly complex. First your sprint goal is GDPR but what 
if these four stories aren't enough to keep the entire team busy?

Well in theory you start story splitting. That is you take these nice reviewable units of work and 
break them up until it's a fun house hall of mirrors reflecting dozens of pieces of GDPR. That makes for an 
implementation full of meetings and waiting for dependencies.

Then there's the length of the sprint. Maybe deleting an organization takes longer than a month to deliver.

Or maybe all the stories are under a month but some finish well ahead of others. Supposedly you start
pulling in stories, one by one, from the product backlog. But if that's okay then why not just do that
all the time?

Plus stories that finish early have to wait for the sprint end to be reviewed, potentially wasting weeks.

### What About the Definition of Done?

Applying a "Definition of Done" to each agile iteration is madness. At a minimum get internal feedback
before a full QE cycle or translating to all languages.

Planning that the end point of every sprint is a full review by customers is only useful if that's really
the case. If not it's a ridiculously expensive way to prepare for an informal review that might dramatically
alter the work that was finished.

But even if a customer review is available reviewing each story internally as it completes is a better
idea than waiting for the entire feature to ship.