---
layout: post
title:  "Startups Are All About Nudges"
author: david
categories: [ agile, startup ]
image: assets/images/person.jpg
featured: true
---

Sometimes a startup provides an experiment for isolating what really matters in software development. 

Let's imagine a two person startup where each co-founder is equal and there are no roles. Now suddenly 
any number of corporate trappings of software development fall away:
* There is no 'management' - neither co-founder can fire the other or set their salary
* There are no dedicated roles like program managers, product managers, marketing, sales - anyone can be 
assigned anything

One might imagine that in such an environment all [project management](https://techbeacon.com/app-dev-testing/project-management-surefire-way-kill-your-software-product)
falls away and the startup is a developer utopia. *That's not what happens.*

Instead all of the pressure to deliver on intermediate milestones remains and the ability to blame the bad 
old boss goes away. In a 'no management' environment are we helpless to just wait and watch or are there still ways 
to help productivity?

This is where [nudge theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nudge_theory), influencing behaviour without coercion, 
comes to the forefront - maybe it's really the most important in more corporate settings also but there are 
too many distractions to realize. 

The first nudge comes from potential customers. This early paper on [lean startup](https://hbr.org/2013/05/why-the-lean-start-up-changes-everything)
gives the example of Blue River Technology that very quickly learned that robotic lawn mowers for golf courses 
were not a viable market and an automated way to kill weeds without chemicals was.

With the advantage of seven years hindsight since that lean startup paper was written two things are obvious:
* [Robotic lawn mowers for golf courses](https://www.husqvarna.com/us/lawn-and-garden/professional/professional-robotic-mowers/automower-for-golf-courses)
are a market.
* [Blue River Technology](http://smartmachines.bluerivertechnology.com) builds targeted automation to kill weeds 
**with chemicals**.

Another words customer voice is a nudge. It can help influence our direction but only in a very broad way. From the 
nudge theory point of view software developers are surrounded by nudges:
* Language selection - ultimately one can do anything equally in Java and Python with enough effort. However a 
language with a HotSpot compiler is going to nudge towards larger, more permanent servers.
* CI/CD tools are a nudge towards quicker deliver cycles.
* Remote technologies are a nudge towards potentially more productive work style options
* Available marketing channels are a nudge towards whatever can be sold via those channels

### Some nudges are the result of mostly external factors but some involve making choices about our environment.
