---
layout: post
title:  "5 ways your PM tool makes your job harder"
author: david
categories: [ agile, startup ]
image: assets/images/kanban.png
featured: true
---
As developers if someone messes with our IDE, source control, build tools, database or programming language we are 
going to do what it takes to sort things out. That's because if we can't do our job as effectively then ultimately we 
will be the ones that pay for the poor choice of tools.

Somehow though, project management tools have escaped this level of developer critical path scrutiny. So without further
ado, here are, in order of preventing you from doing your job, the problems caused by 5 useless meetings. 

## #5 The Standup
It's just 15 minutes! That's the rallying cry of this meetings proponents. As if the Return on Investment from the
meeting could be guaranteed by time boxing. Why not time box all meetings to 15 minutes then?

The purpose of the standup is to plan the rest of the day and in this it just fails. If anyone has blockers to report 
then they've been stalled waiting up to 24 hours to report them. If no one has blockers then the morning has been 
needlessly broken up by this meeting and that costs a lot more than 15 minutes.

**The verdict**: Would we put up with an IDE or database failing this hard? No way would we even allow
them to waste 15 minutes a day much less the potentially much larger problems that come from sitting on blockers until 
the next meeting.

## #4 The Demo After Done
Ideally you need feedback before, during and immediately after coding. Having one big meeting every once in a while to 
get that feedback is a fail. 

The even bigger fail is that the entrance requirements to this meeting include all kinds of Definition of Done 
fine sanding on code that will be lost if there is a redo.

**The verdict**: This is like a build tool which can either allow code through without testing or lose 
2 weeks of commits. It's unexplainable why this level of pain is tolerated.

## #3 The Retrospective
By definition a retrospective cannot solve anything in a timely fashion. By the time the meeting occurs you have already
put up with whatever you want solved long enough for doing the wrong thing to take hold.

On top of that, this is another time boxed meeting that just reduces the hours remaining to find solutions.

**The verdict**: Frequently this meeting devolves in to fun themed games and rarely produces change. For a developer 
tool the current state is the equivalent of a major programming language introducing smiley face syntax.

## #2 The Planning Meeting
Let's understand why your project management tool is to blame for the crazy here. Imagine source control left most
of the functionality to meetings. Activities that could otherwise be processed continuously would suddenly depend on
meeting agendas and meeting techniques.

The much complained about emphasis on estimating is also enforced by using meetings inappropriately. Since the meeting
can only be held periodically you need to estimate how many stories can be completed before the next one.

However, the largest fail of the planning meeting is how synchronous it is. This is gun to the head pressure on 
decisions that can easily waste weeks or even tank a project.

**The verdict**: The failure of the planning meeting as a developer tool is large enough that many senior developers
choose to become teams of one. Unfortunately that leaves them bereft of the collaboration benefits of having a team.

## #1 The Got A Minute? Meeting
Kanban boards are not backed by notifications that require action, so developers must signal their problem 
stories with new columns or marked by flags. Neither is a good solution, so it's difficult even to know that your 
teammates need your help and impossible to help them asynchronously with traditional PM tools. Jira for instance does 
not even allow replying to a comment much less full collaboration and augmenting with Slack only makes it worse.

However, even if your team knows you have an issue your story cannot be properly paused while you take a new one.
You are stuck with the results of your planning meeting and likely must compromise on the problematic story since there
is no space in the process to do otherwise.

What makes this the #1 problem is that developers helping each other without breaking everyone's focus is the last
resort for fixing the first four issues caused by poor PM tooling.

**The verdict**: Not only are traditional PM tools not keeping up with the quality of the rest of a developer's toolset,
they are not even keeping up with social media. It's easier to get a question answered online then to get PM tools
and meetings help with your problem.