---
layout: post
title:  "Enjoy coding more with Uclusion"
author: david
image: assets/images/Uclusion_Logo_FullColor_Lg.svg
categories: [ startup ]
---
You work hard to be able to code with some autonomy, but that doesn't mean you want 
to reach every decision by yourself. Plus you also don't want synchronous meetings and chat 
sessions to be your only options for collaboration.

Uclusion is built for you, and below we show why it's better than options like 
simple notes, spreadsheet, Notion like, and GitHub issues.

## One assignee, unlimited collaborators
You've likely customized your current solution, but not with the level of detail that went into Uclusion.
* Estimated completion date based reminders
* Moving tasks and bugs between and to jobs and back
* Mark task in progress and optionally remove in progress from others
* Navigation - next button, keystrokes, wizards with focussed buttons
* Mobile interface
* Progress reports for reviews by observers
* Questions with voteable options
* Voteable suggestions that convert to tasks
* Different levels of bugs and backlog
* View autonomous mode to simplify the features for one assignee usage
* Optimized creation wizards for all objects
* Attach files
* Drag and drop bugs and jobs backed by wizards
* Smart notifications that only inform observers when they are participating

Each feature is polished by developers like you to a level only we appreciate.

## Small Team
When two people join a view many of Uclusion's other collaboration features are that much more
valuable:
* Status automatically reflects open questions, suggestions, and blockers
* Slack and email integration - see in channel notifications for critical
bugs and questions that are also available asynchronous
* Backlog notifications vary by level of job or bug
* Job approvals
* Deep linking and view configurable short codes
* Move a reply to a task
* Smart notifications that show you exactly what changed

Everything above can be handled with more chat and meetings,
but only in a much less satisfying way. With Uclusion when synchronous 
interaction is necessary your agenda is already queued up and half way
done.

## Customer Collaboration
When you create a workspace with a customer the ease of use of Uclusion 
really shines:
* Inbox wizards - every notification backed by a wizard with easy to understand push
button common actions
* Discussion section - suggestions and questions with options are also
top level objects
* Archive a workspace - only pay for users that are active

So everything in Uclusion scales up from simple to advanced usage
without requiring your effort to customize. This principle also
holds for larger teams.

## Large Team
The larger a team the more difficulty communication and collaborating 
together. However, with a larger team you also get more help from 
Uclusion:
* Built-in flows prevent bogging down in meetings -
self assigning jobs and bugs, approvals, reviews, estimation, and 
assistance.
* Sanity logic - only an assignee moves a job to approved,
approvals expire, jobs cannot be moved to complete with resolving tasks,
question asker decides on options that can be voted, approvals require
recording a certainty, you can't move a job to assistance without saying
why, top level comments strongly typed, a new review
resolves old ones, a reply can be moved to a task, mentions
affect who is notified and how, critical notifications cannot be 
dismissed without a resolution, and much, much more
* Placeholder users and catchup notifications for newly joined
* Outbox - track what the team owes you and poke if required

[Signing up](https://uclusion.com) for free puts you directly into a sandbox demo of a larger team in action.
The main difference between that demo and an autonomous mode view is the removal from the UI of features that require 
more than one user.







